Security process(es) doc (#8952)
kubernetes/community: contributors/guide/security.md

  workloads — is an operator choice, not a product flaw.
- **Out-of-support versions:** We do not investigate reports against
  end-of-life minor releases.
- **Transitive dependency CVEs with no reachable symbol.** Reachability
  is verified by symbol-level analysis (for example, `govulncheck`) or
  a code trace.  Evidence of exploitability is desired as version-matching scanner output is useful but not by itself authoritative.
- **Actions available to a caller who already holds the equivalent
  permission.** A cluster admin doing variants of admin is not a
  privilege escalation.
- **Alpha-gated features off by default.** Experimental on purpose; we
  fix the bugs but do not cut emergency releases for them.
- **Findings reachable only on platforms we do not ship** (for example,
  CVEs in a dependency guarded behind a BSD build tag).
- **Denial of service through pathological input from a caller who
  already has write access to the object being parsed.**
- **Crashes where graceful restart is part of the documented
  operational model.**
- **Weak algorithms, missing headers, or deprecated settings an
  operator opted into by configuration.**

> - **AI-generated reports whose code paths, symbols, or traces cannot

Reviewer: does it matter the origin, if is not reproducible it does not really matter if is AI generated or manually ?

I think that this is a more call of warning that "AI automated report must be curated and validated by the reporter"

Author: changing the text

  be reproduced.**
- **Compliance-framework findings that do not describe a concrete
  flaw.** That conversation belongs between the compliance vendor, distributor and operator, not with the SRC.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Issues relating to known Kubernetes project architectural choices and accepted risks. Anything that's already been noted in a existing security audit or public blog which the project has chosen not to fix by issuing a patch.
```

The comment's dropped off the review list but this was some possible wording addressing the idea that we won't issue CVEs for things we already know about. The idea here is to avoid submissions (especially AI gen ones) that are just based on existing known issues (e.g. the unclosed ones from third party audits, the unpatchable CVEs or things like the kinvolk pod proxy attack)

## Severity and release path

The SRC assigns one of four severity tiers using project-specific
judgment. CVSS vectors accompany every advisory because downstream
tools expect them, but CVSS is not authoritative and we do not endorse
third-party scores (including NVD's). What the tier actually controls
is the release path. See: https://github.com/kubernetes/committee-security-response/blob/main/security-release-process.md#fix-development-process and https://github.com/kubernetes/committee-security-response/blob/main/security-release-process.md#low-cves-that-can-skip-private-disclosures

Patch releases ship monthly; a vulnerability introduced and fixed on
`master` before any release tag carries it does not receive a CVE. See: https://kubernetes.io/releases/patch-releases/

The Kubernetes project is a CVE Numbering Authority for components in
the `kubernetes/kubernetes` repository. CVEs in upstream dependencies
(Go, containerd, etcd, runc, kernel) are the responsibility of their

> respective CNAs. CVEs in out-of-tree Kubernetes SIG projects are

Reviewer: does this really mean "out-of-tree Kubernetes SIG projects"? or not kubernetes/kubernetes and SIG projects? because all kubernetes sig projects are out of tree,  unless we consider the ones that we revendor in kubernetes/kubernetes 🤔

Author: clarified hopefully!

Supported releases are the most recent three minors (N, N-1, N-2), each
receiving roughly fourteen months of patch support. See: https://kubernetes.io/releases/patch-releases/#support-period 

We backport security fixes to all three. We do not patch end-of-life 
releases; commercial distributions often provide extended support 
for older versions. 
## What we do not treat as a vulnerability

The following are not Kubernetes vulnerabilities in themselves. They may
still be legitimate bugs, and we welcome those reports through the
normal issue tracker. They will not receive a CVE from the Kubernetes
CNA and will not drive out-of-band releases.

- **Misconfigurations:** Deviating from documented secure defaults —
  anonymous auth, missing RBAC, privileged containers for untrusted
  workloads — is an operator choice, not a product flaw.
- **Out-of-support versions:** We do not investigate reports against
  end-of-life minor releases.
- **Transitive dependency CVEs with no reachable symbol.** Reachability
  is verified by symbol-level analysis (for example, `govulncheck`) or
  a code trace. Version-matching scanner output is not by itself

>   evidence of exploitability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Transitive dependency CVEs with no reachable symbol.** Reachability
  is verified by symbol-level analysis (for example, `govulncheck`) or
  a code trace.  Evidence of exploitability is desired as version-matching scanner output is useful but not by itself authoritative.
```

- **Actions available to a caller who already holds the equivalent
  permission.** A cluster admin doing variants of admin is not a
  privilege escalation.
- **Alpha-gated features off by default.** Experimental on purpose; we
  fix the bugs but do not cut emergency releases for them.
- **Findings reachable only on platforms we do not ship** (for example,
  CVEs in a dependency guarded behind a BSD build tag).
- **Denial of service through pathological input from a caller who
  already has write access to the object being parsed.**
- **Crashes where graceful restart is part of the documented
  operational model.**
- **Weak algorithms, missing headers, or deprecated settings an
  operator opted into by configuration.**
- **Scanner output presented as the primary evidence of a flaw.**

>   Scanners are useful; they are not authoritative.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

```suggestion

```

Merged here: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/8952/changes#r3140510979

- **AI-generated reports whose code paths, symbols, or traces cannot
  be reproduced.**
- **Compliance-framework findings that do not describe a concrete
  flaw.** That conversation belongs between the compliance vendor, distributor and operator, not with the SRC.

## Severity and release path

The SRC assigns one of four severity tiers using project-specific
judgment. CVSS vectors accompany every advisory because downstream
tools expect them, but CVSS is not authoritative and we do not endorse
third-party scores (including NVD's). What the tier actually controls
is the release path. See: https://github.com/kubernetes/committee-security-response/blob/main/security-release-process.md#fix-development-process and 

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is the release path. See: https://github.com/kubernetes/committee-security-response/blob/main/security-release-process.md#fix-development-process and https://github.com/kubernetes/committee-security-response/blob/main/security-release-process.md#low-cves-that-can-skip-private-disclosures

```

One link was missing

  vulnerability: the SRC assigns a severity, coordinates the
  dependency bump with SIG Release, and ships it through the path
  above. Critical and High cases may trigger an out-of-band release;
  Medium and Low cases ride the next scheduled monthly patch.
- **Reachable but not exploitable.** The symbol is called but the
  upstream attack vector cannot be reproduced in our usage (for
  example, the callers pass only trusted input, or a wrapping API
  imposes limits the upstream library does not). We bump the
  dependency on `master` on a normal schedule and backport only when
  the upstream fix is low-risk and contained. No CVE is issued by the
  Kubernetes CNA for this case. Publishing machine-readable
  "Not Affected" statements for this class is planned work (see
  "Machine-readable artifacts" below).
- **Not reachable.** The vulnerable symbol is not called from any
  Kubernetes-shipped binary, or it is guarded behind a build tag we
  do not ship (BSD, exotic architectures, debug-only paths). A
  `master` bump happens when the dependency graph organically pulls
  the fixed version; we do not open cherry-picks for release branches
  merely to change a version string.

> 
> Historically, first scenario rarely happens whereas Scenario 2 and 3 are much more prevalent.
> The monthly patch cadence is a feature of this classification, not a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Historically, first scenario rarely happens whereas Scenario 2 and 3 are much more prevalent.

The monthly patch cadence is a feature of this classification, not a
```

bug. A Medium-severity, reachable-and-exploitable upstream CVE ships
within roughly thirty days by default — faster than most compliance
frameworks require, slower than the scanner ticket demands. If the
K8s SRC Fix Lead believes users are exposed sooner than that, the case is
reclassified up (to High, or to an out-of-band release); if the

> Any amount of external escalation plays no part in the decision making of when a fix will land.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
reclassified up (to High, or to an out-of-band release); any amount of external escalation plays no part in the decision making of when a fix will land.
```
leftover text

whether a targeted dependency bypass makes the Go issue irrelevant
to Kubernetes (case by case). The Kubernetes CNA does not issue separate CVE numbers 
for Go standard library bugs and uses Go Community's already issued CVEs to track this work.

Dependency updates whose only purpose is to silence a scanner, without additional evidence such as but not limited to reachability analysis, are not eligible for cherry-pick to release branches. This rule is
load-bearing. Without it, every noisy scanner becomes a forcing
function on the release calendar, and the release calendar stops
serving users who actually need predictable patching for relevant issues.

End-of-life branches receive no dependency bumps, whether for CVE
reasons or otherwise. Extended-support scenarios (older clusters on
managed services, appliance deployments, regulated environments) are
a concern for commercial vendors, not for the upstream community.

## Project release cadences

Kubernetes is not a single release train. The monthly patch cadence
described above applies to the core components built out of
`kubernetes/kubernetes` — kube-apiserver, kubelet, controller-manager,

> scheduler, kube-proxy. Dozens of other projects in the `kubernetes` and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
scheduler, kube-proxy, kubectl. Dozens of other projects in the `kubernetes` and
```

> `kubernetes-sigs` GitHub organizations — ingress-nginx, the CSI and CNI
> drivers, cluster-api and its providers, kustomize, cri-tools,
> external-dns, image-builder, and many more — run their own release

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`kubernetes-sigs` GitHub organizations — ingress-nginx, the CSI and CNI
drivers, etcd, cluster-api and its providers, kustomize, cri-tools,
external-dns, image-builder, and many more — run their own release
```

# Kubernetes Security Processes

This document describes what the Kubernetes project fixes, on what timeline,
and what we decline to treat as a vulnerability. It is written for
reporters, users, distributors, contributors, and community members.

## Scope and assumptions

The properties we defend — authentication, authorization, admission, tenant
isolation, secret handling, component integrity — assume a cluster where

> the operator has applied documented secure defaults. Operator-chosen

Reviewer 2: This bit will open up a question of "which documented secure defaults we mean", as distros often have different ideas of secure defaults.  I can initially think of a couple of options here

- Pick a set of defaults to reference (e.g. Kubeadm defaults) I would lean against saying "Kubernetes component defaults" here as some of those are not what people run in production clusters.
- Exclude anything that can be configured (i.e. there is an option of secure configuration available) from Kubernetes CVEs. so that way a valid report might be "this is insecure and there's no configuration option to make it secure" but "hey out of the box this is insecure" would not be.

Honestly that last one might make more sense. Realistically out of the box, Kubernetes is not a secure enterprise platform, it needs external software and/or additional configuration (e.g. no default netpol, anyone who can create pods gets root on any node)

Author: Would like some SRC input on this for sure :)

> the operator has applied documented secure defaults. Operator-chosen

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
isolation, secret handling, component integrity — assumes a cluster where
the operator has chosen a secure configuration among all available options. Operator-chosen
```

Reviewer 3: IMO, this suggestion should cover what @raesene is trying to say in https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/8952/changes#r3130754172

configuration is a trust boundary: nodes the operator has admitted to the
cluster are trusted; clusters that run with RBAC disabled or with
authorization bypassed are not defended; in-cluster administrators
exercising their granted permissions are not attackers.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more details on how SRC assesses severity of a reported vulnerability: https://github.com/kubernetes/committee-security-response/blob/main/severity-ratings.md
```

> Components outside the `kubernetes/kubernetes` repository — out-of-tree

Reviewer 4: I'm -1 on this.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LJ8lDLGyvSfbdn3kkM4L1O65WS9hALWIYChpzBodAMo/edit?usp=sharing

I worry that asking each project to define their own SRC policy will lead to very little projects having any security process. I'd like us to have an opt-in process for kubernetes-sigs.

cc @ritazh

Author: @kannon92 i would love for that policy to be official :)

Reviewer 4: My main concern is that kubernetes-sigs should have some centralized way of getting CVE/security issues. 

I haven't read the rest of the doc but this jumped out at me as a concern.

Reviewer 3: I made a suggestion related to this: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/8952#discussion_r3139243890 as part of my overall review

Author: There's a thread going on in:
https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CPNFRNLTS/p1776355176042239

Until the doc is published policy, the text in this stands. This is a living document and can be updated anytime when things change. it just reflects what is current for now.

CSI, CNI, and cloud-provider implementations, the Kubernetes SIG
repositories, ingress-nginx, image-builder, and similar — are owned by

> their respective maintainers and CNAs. The Kubernetes SRC coordinates

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
their respective maintainers. The Kubernetes SRC coordinates
```

I would remove the CNA part here as SRC still is the only CNA serving all sub-projects based on recent announcements for ingress-nginx, csi drivers etc.: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/issues-security/official-cve-feed/

> with those repositories when a vulnerability spans boundaries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
with those maintainers when they consider it necessary.
```

## Reporting

See:
https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/issues-security/security/

Report privately through HackerOne (`https://hackerone.com/kubernetes`)
or by email to `security@kubernetes.io`. Include a reproducible proof of

> concept, symbol-level reachability evidence, or a code trace from an

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
concept exploit code/script, symbol-level reachability evidence, or a code trace from an
```

attacker-reachable entry point to the flaw. The SRC acknowledges reports

> within three working days and begins triage within seven calendar days,

Reviewer 3: I would like somebody from SRC to confirm this. This doc: https://github.com/kubernetes/committee-security-response/blob/main/src-oncall.md does say initial response target is within 1 day but does not say more than that. cc @ritazh @enj

Author: See here @PushkarJ : https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/issues-security/security/#security-vulnerability-response

`Each report is acknowledged and analyzed by Security Response Committee members within 3 working days.`
`For a vulnerability with a straightforward mitigation, we expect report date to disclosure date to be on the order of 7 days`

Author: i inferred triage with seven days from there :)

but does not commit to a deterministic investigation or fix deadline.
Complex vulnerabilities in infrastructure this large take weeks of
careful work, and we will not rush a fix we are not confident in.

## What we fix

A finding receives a Kubernetes CVE and follows the release process
below when it breaks one of the properties above — against a currently
supported release and a configuration the project documents as

> supported.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A finding receives a Kubernetes CVE and follows the release process
below when it breaks one of the properties above — against a currently
supported release and a configuration the project documents as
supported. See: https://github.com/kubernetes/committee-security-response/blob/main/security-release-process.md#patch-release-and-public-communication
```

Supported releases are the most recent three minors (N, N-1, N-2), each
receiving roughly fourteen months of patch support. We backport security

> fixes to all three. We do not patch end-of-life releases; commercial
> distributions often provide extended support for older versions.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Supported releases are the most recent three minors (N, N-1, N-2), each
receiving roughly fourteen months of patch support. See: https://kubernetes.io/releases/patch-releases/#support-period 

We backport security fixes to all three. We do not patch end-of-life 
releases; commercial distributions often provide extended support 
for older versions. 
```

## What we do not treat as a vulnerability

The following are not Kubernetes vulnerabilities in themselves. They may
still be legitimate bugs, and we welcome those reports through the
normal issue tracker. They will not receive a CVE from the Kubernetes
CNA and will not drive out-of-band releases.

- **Misconfigurations.** Deviating from documented secure defaults —
  anonymous auth, missing RBAC, privileged containers for untrusted
  workloads — is an operator choice, not a product flaw.
- **Out-of-support versions.** We do not investigate reports against

>   end-of-life minors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Misconfigurations:** Deviating from documented secure defaults —
  anonymous auth, missing RBAC, privileged containers for untrusted
  workloads — is an operator choice, not a product flaw.
- **Out-of-support versions:** We do not investigate reports against
  end-of-life minor releases.
```

- **Transitive dependency CVEs with no reachable symbol.** Reachability
  is verified by symbol-level analysis (for example, `govulncheck`) or
  a code trace. Version-matching scanner output is not by itself

>   evidence.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Transitive dependency CVEs with no reachable symbol.** Reachability
  is verified by symbol-level analysis (for example, `govulncheck`) or
  a code trace. Version-matching scanner output is not by itself
  evidence of exploitability.
```

- **Actions available to a caller who already holds the equivalent
  permission.** A cluster admin doing variants of admin is not a
  privilege escalation.
- **Alpha-gated features off by default.** Experimental on purpose; we
  fix the bugs but do not cut emergency releases for them.
- **Findings reachable only on platforms we do not ship** (for example,
  CVEs in a dependency guarded behind a BSD build tag).
- **Denial of service through pathological input from a caller who

>   already has write access to the object being parsed.**

Reviewer 3: pathological: Do you mean to say theoretically possible but often not practical input. e.g. large payload size, etc. ?

Author: correct.

- **Crashes where graceful restart is part of the documented
  operational model.**
- **Weak algorithms, missing headers, or deprecated settings an
  operator opted into by configuration.**
- **Scanner output presented as the primary evidence of a flaw.**

>   Scanners are useful; they are not authoritative.

Reviewer 3: Seems duplicate of transitive dependency point above. We could merge both of these into one

Author: Done

- **AI-generated reports whose code paths, symbols, or traces cannot
  be reproduced.**
- **Compliance-framework findings that do not describe a concrete
  flaw.** That conversation belongs between the compliance vendor and

>   the operator, not with the SRC.

Reviewer 2: Do we want an exclusion for "things we already know about" here, to avoid people re-discovering old issues and thinking they're a new finding. For this sources like the results of 3rd party audit would be a good starting point, also there's also things like open GH issues (e.g. 18982) and some things like https://kinvolk.io/blog/2019/02/abusing-kubernetes-apiserver-proxying which don't even have a GH issue.

Ideally I guess it'd be nice to have a list of all of those in one place, but that's not something that exists at the moment(AFAIK)

Author: Can you please suggest some language i can incorporate @raesene ? thanks!

>   the operator, not with the SRC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  flaw.** That conversation belongs between the compliance vendor, distributor and operator, not with the SRC.
```

## Severity and release path

The SRC assigns one of four severity tiers using project-specific
judgment. CVSS vectors accompany every advisory because downstream
tools expect them, but CVSS is not authoritative and we do not endorse
third-party scores (including NVD's). What the tier actually controls
is the release path:

- **Critical / High** — handled under embargo; out-of-band patched
  release; distributors notified at least seven days before public
  disclosure; announcement coordinated across release branches.
- **Medium** — handled under embargo when beneficial to users, or
  semi-publicly when it is not; rides the next scheduled monthly patch
  release.
- **Low** — fixed in the open on `master`, backported where useful,
  ships in the next scheduled monthly patch release. Announced after

>   the fact.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The SRC assigns one of four severity tiers using project-specific
judgment. CVSS vectors accompany every advisory because downstream
tools expect them, but CVSS is not authoritative and we do not endorse
third-party scores (including NVD's). What the tier actually controls
is the release path. See: https://github.com/kubernetes/committee-security-response/blob/main/security-release-process.md#fix-development-process and 
```

We should skip repeating the process around CVSS Severity levels so there is only one authoritative source

Patch releases ship monthly; a vulnerability introduced and fixed on

> `master` before any release tag carries it does not receive a CVE.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Patch releases ship monthly; a vulnerability introduced and fixed on
`master` before any release tag carries it does not receive a CVE. See: https://kubernetes.io/releases/patch-releases/
```

The Kubernetes project is a CVE Numbering Authority for components in
the `kubernetes/kubernetes` repository. CVEs in upstream dependencies
(Go, containerd, etcd, runc, kernel) are the responsibility of their
respective CNAs. CVEs in out-of-tree Kubernetes SIG projects are
issued by those projects' CNAs when they have one, or through MITRE
otherwise. The SRC coordinates across these boundaries but does not

> re-issue CVE identifiers for code it does not own.

Reviewer 3: I am not sure this is true e.g. ingress-nginx and csi-driver did receive the CVEs from SRC afaict. If its context dependent, we should qualify this statement with that. cc @ritazh @tabbysable

Author: CSI-Driver is Tier 2 for SRC - `GA & Beta features of non-core GA components (e.g. CSI drivers, kube-adm)`

They also say - under the heading `Out of scope - please report to the corresponding project directly`
```
Vulnerabilities in ingress and gateway controllers
High quality reports may be rewarded with a bonus on a case by case basis
```

So they need to clear it up. Until then i'll keep the current text

## CVEs in our dependencies

Kubernetes is a large Go program that vendors hundreds of modules.
Kubernetes releases also include container images that have their own

> dependencies. A substantial fraction of all CVE-related traffic we

Reviewer 3: Somehow "CVE-related" is showing as underlined and in blue for as if it is link. Not sure if its just my browser

Author: github UI glitch. nothing in the text itself as far as i can tell

> receive is about code we import rather than code we wrote. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
receive is about code we `import` or `vendor` rather than code we maintain. This
```

Reviewer 3: To me makes sense to annotate it like this to share `import` here mean go import statements and vendoring.

  vulnerability: the SRC assigns a severity, coordinates the
  dependency bump with SIG Release, and ships it through the path
  above. Critical and High cases may trigger an out-of-band release;
  Medium and Low cases ride the next scheduled monthly patch.
- **Reachable but not exploitable.** The symbol is called but the
  upstream attack vector cannot be reproduced in our usage (for
  example, the callers pass only trusted input, or a wrapping API
  imposes limits the upstream library does not). We bump the
  dependency on `master` on a normal schedule and backport only when
  the upstream fix is low-risk and contained. No CVE is issued by the
  Kubernetes CNA for this case. Publishing machine-readable
  "Not Affected" statements for this class is planned work (see
  "Machine-readable artifacts" below).
- **Not reachable.** The vulnerable symbol is not called from any
  Kubernetes-shipped binary, or it is guarded behind a build tag we
  do not ship (BSD, exotic architectures, debug-only paths). A
  `master` bump happens when the dependency graph organically pulls
  the fixed version; we do not open cherry-picks for release branches
  merely to change a version string.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Historically, first scenario rarely happens whereas Scenario 2 and 3 are much more prevalent.
```

The monthly patch cadence is a feature of this classification, not a
bug. A Medium-severity, reachable-and-exploitable upstream CVE ships
within roughly thirty days by default — faster than most compliance
frameworks require, slower than the scanner ticket demands. If the
Fix Lead believes users are exposed sooner than that, the case is
reclassified up (to High, or to an out-of-band release); if the
Fix Lead believes the monthly cadence is sufficient, no amount of

> external escalation changes that.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
frameworks require, slower than the scanner ticket demands. If the
K8s SRC Fix Lead believes users are exposed sooner than that, the case is
reclassified up (to High, or to an out-of-band release); if the
Any amount of external escalation plays no part in the decision making of when a fix will land.
```

Go toolchain updates are a special case. Each Kubernetes minor pins a
Go minor; we cannot swap Go versions mid-release-cycle without
substantial risk. When a Go standard library CVE lands, SIG Release
evaluates whether a patch-level Go bump covers it (the common case,
handled in the next scheduled patch), whether a minor Go bump is
required (rare; coordinated with the Go team and typically deferred
to the next Kubernetes minor unless exploitability is high), or
whether a targeted dependency bypass makes the Go issue irrelevant
to Kubernetes (case by case). The Kubernetes CNA does not issue CVEs

> for Go standard library bugs; those are Go's to issue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to Kubernetes (case by case). The Kubernetes CNA does not issue separate CVE numbers 
for Go standard library bugs and uses Go Community's already issued CVEs to track this work.
```

Dependency updates whose only purpose is to silence a scanner — no
reachability analysis, no upstream fix that touches reachable code —

> are not eligible for cherry-pick to release branches. This rule is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Dependency updates whose only purpose is to silence a scanner, without additional evidence such as but not limited to reachability analysis, are not eligible for cherry-pick to release branches. This rule is
```

load-bearing. Without it, every noisy scanner becomes a forcing
function on the release calendar, and the release calendar stops

> serving users who actually need predictable patching.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
serving users who actually need predictable patching for relevant issues.
```

End-of-life branches receive no dependency bumps, whether for CVE
reasons or otherwise. Extended-support scenarios (older clusters on
managed services, appliance deployments, regulated environments) are

> a concern for commercial vendors, not for the upstream SRC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a concern for commercial vendors, not for the upstream community.
```

This seems more generic for all the members of community who maintain the code rather than SRC

## Project release cadences

Kubernetes is not a single release train. The monthly patch cadence
described above applies to the core components built out of
`kubernetes/kubernetes` — kube-apiserver, kubelet, controller-manager,

> scheduler, kube-proxy. Dozens of other projects in the `kubernetes` and

Reviewer 3: Should we include `kubectl` as well?

Author: done

`kubernetes-sigs` GitHub organizations — ingress-nginx, the CSI and CNI
drivers, cluster-api and its providers, kustomize, cri-tools,

> external-dns, image-builder, and many more — run their own release

Reviewer 3: Should we include `etcd`?

Author: Done

cadences, set by their own maintainer teams and not aligned with the
core. Most of these projects are maintained by very small groups, often
on volunteer time.

Please do not ask individual project maintainers to cut out-of-band
releases because a scanner flagged something in their repository.
Maintainer time spent on compliance-driven releases is time not spent on
actual bug fixes or feature work, and repeated pressure on a small team
is corrosive. The good-citizen pattern is to file the issue (with
reachability evidence, per this document), read the project's release
cadence, and wait for the next scheduled release unless the finding

> genuinely warrants acceleration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
genuinely warrants acceleration. AI driven PRs without human reviews or involvement, that fix scanner reported vulnerabilities, do not help and in fact waste precious maintainer time. 
```

If a finding meets the severity bar for an out-of-band release, the SRC
and the project maintainers will coordinate without external prompting;
you do not need to ping every maintainer individually to get that to
happen. If it does not meet that bar, the fix ships in the project's
next scheduled release. Either way, the release calendar is the
project's call, not the scanner's.

> 

Reviewer 5: We have a Security Release Process, https://github.com/kubernetes/committee-security-response/blob/main/security-release-process.md
that documents the security disclosures and response policy in handling critical issues.

Is this a good section to add a link to the process

Reviewer 3: This statement is more generic than just k/k so I think its okay to not link the k/k docs here but I did add links to this in earlier part of the document

## Machine-readable artifacts

**Currently published.** The SRC publishes an official CVE feed in
JSON and RSS on kubernetes.io, derived from GitHub issues labeled

> `official-cve-feed`. Release artifacts carry signed SBOMs and SLSA

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Currently published.** The SRC and SIG Security publishes an official CVE feed in
JSON and RSS on kubernetes.io, derived from GitHub issues labeled
`official-cve-feed`. Release artifacts carry signed SBOMs and SLSA
```

provenance. An OSV-format mirror lives at
`kubernetes-sigs/cve-feed-osv` as a secondary artifact for tools that
consume OSV natively.

**Planned.** Per-release VEX ("Not Affected") statements covering the
reachability status of common scanner-flagged CVEs — tracked at
`kubernetes/kubernetes#121454` — are the intended mechanical answer to
transitive-dependency false positives, and will become how we
neutralize scanner noise at scale once emission is in place.
Publication of the primary kubernetes.io CVE feed in OSV schema is

> also planned, to close the gap with osv.dev ingestion. Annual

Reviewer 3: Thanks for adding this. This is indeed correct.

Author: 🙏🏾

aggregate triage statistics (reports received, reports declined, CVEs
issued, qualitative effort summary) are a proposed addition to the
SIG Security annual report, so the cost of scanner noise is visible
rather than implicit.

If your scanner does not consume VEX when it arrives, please ask your
vendor to fix that before filing additional reports against us.

> ## Maintainer sustainability

Reviewer 2: I think this is a great point to emphasise, especially at the moment when I expect a large increase in report numbers. It feels like it would be good to revisit https://github.com/kubernetes/committee-security-response/blob/main/src-oncall.md and the Hackerone statements along these lines as right now they have quite a tight expected turnaround, and we've had people popping up in the Kubernete security channel several times this year when those advertised SLAs haven't been possible to meet.

It feels like revising them to be more realistic, or removing specific targets altogether, would make sense.

Author: very true, but not in this doc. will leave that to the SRC folks.

The Security Response Committee is a small, part-time group running
on a business-hours oncall rotation. We prioritize issues with
demonstrated real-world impact on Kubernetes users over issues
surfaced only by vulnerability scanners or compliance tooling. We do
not offer SLA-backed response, and if your compliance program
requires one — a FedRAMP-style thirty-day remediation window, a PCI
audit deadline, a customer contract — please engage a commercial

> Kubernetes distribution vendor; that is what they exist for.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for adding this. Incredibly valuable. This should in fact go in the first half of the doc

Author: 🙏🏾

## Guidance for contributors fielding security-flavored issues

When a public issue arrives that should have been private, ask the
reporter to move it to HackerOne or email and close the issue; do not
amplify it with technical debate in public. When a scanner-driven
issue arrives, post the reachability evidence (or ask for it), link
this document, and close — the threshold for re-opening is a specific
call path, not a louder complaint. When a compliance-driven issue
arrives, be courteous, point at the release cadence and this
document, and close. When a dependency bump request cites a scanner
but no reachability analysis, decline the backport and link this
document. The SRC comms templates include canned responses for each
of these patterns; prefer them over ad-hoc prose. None of this is
rudeness; it is the only way a volunteer committee can stay effective

> in a project this size.

Reviewer 3: Agree 💯 with this

Author: 🙏🏾
